Meeting Title: LFL_Interview_Varun Bhatia_
Date: Nov 28

Transcript:
 
Them: I'm a software engineer. I'm based in Berlin. I worked on building sales for the last ten years. Okay. And and my colleagues here, Olaf,  
Me: Yeah. Hi.  
Them: Hi. You're what? I  
Me: I'm I'm Olaf, and I'm also based in Berlin.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: But from software business, but I used to work in the industry in this and in the renewable energy industry. And in my former life, I was a management consultant.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: So I've had different roles in my profession. But decided to build a company with Moore Saint Troynet on this  
Them: Okay.  
Me: sustainable product thing. So I'm very interested learn about your opinions on this whole space and  
Them: No. No problem at all.  
Me: yes, thank you for your for your time.  
Them: So, yeah, Renee, Olaf and I, we met at the carbon thirteen, and we decided to spin out the venture in in regard to providing services for sustainable product design and discrete manufacturing Yeah. Also for engineering teams. So I'll be conducting this interview. Olaf will be joining to take notes and intervene for some time. That's okay. Just wanna ask if we can also record record this call. For Yeah. It's okay. You can record it. It's okay. Thank you. Great. Nice. So yeah. So just to to make sure we're we're on the time till eleven. Right? Yep. Yeah. I can go a few minutes above as well. It's sort of problem because I have a half an hour gap. And then my next call starts at 11:30. It's okay. Okay. Perfect. Thanks a lot. Yeah. So we have the chance to talk with your partner, Golman, Thomas, Thomas last week. It was, like, a great interview. Yeah. And I think this is what be also another helpful interview that helped us have a a better picture of of the problem space we're researching. And and I would like to start with the if you could just tell me briefly about your current role currently. Okay. Sure. Yeah. I mean, from the education perspective, I am quite close similar to Zoom Mouse. I'm a software engineer by profession. Studied computer science engineering. And started working as a software developer for a PLM company. Now we call a CLM or team center. So I was one of the software developer, a group working with the group of software developers developing the products. Went there for a few years, and then I changed my profession more in line with Ola As a management consultant, I was working for Deloitte for discrete manufacturing. For for many years, that's where also I met Thomas And now together with Thomas, we are running a company providing services and consulting as well as implementation services for PLM softwares. So that's, like, that's does it change, like, from developing the software was developed for, like it was a PLM software or it's a solution on top of it? No. No. It's a PLM software. So software we don't develop any software ourselves. We basically expertise in the standard software in the market, for example, team center or SAP. But all this software does not fulfill all the requirements towards the customer out of the box Right? So there is also certain additional configuration and customizations needed on top of it. That's what we advise and then also implement for the customer. Oh, nice. And, what type of, like, products you mainly worked on? Like On kind of discrete manufacturer. Kind of products. So we so we we of course, we we were in Germany. So, you know, automotive components, automotive companies itself, we were quite engaged with them. In the past. But last few years, I would say last four or five years now, we have been working more with complex machineries. So, for example, current my current customers are ASML, which is making one of the most complex lithography machines, and, then Daman shipyard making vessel. So more and more, we are doing complex assemblies and the complex machineries in last few years. Yeah. I read one of the use cases of CloudSign like, on your website. So Yeah. Especially, like, the one that is related to the PLC sensors and Yep. And, I mean, we're we're we're focusing more on the sustainability topic here and yeah, we're just wondering what is the so where does sustainability sits in in the current organization or the the also, the organization you work on, is there any official there anybody that is officially responsible for it, whether in your organization or or the partners or organization you work with. Yeah. So, of course, sustainability we're actually coming quite high up in the agenda at most of our customers. For multiple and various regions. There are couple of aspects to it. And mostly, to be honest, you know, I see two drivers at our customers nowadays when they talk about sustainability, not so much so about you know, saving the environment, etcetera. Mostly, it's always about the legal compliance which are coming in or kicking in from EU. Or they want a better visibility because, certain kind of tariffs has been introduced. By by by US, etcetera. So they want to have a clear visibility what kind of materials are used in their product, and substances are used in their product so that they can report better for the secondary tariffs. So secondary tariffs such as aluminum or copper, which US is applying now more and more. So if you have a complex product, like, take an example of a medical device, and you are using a steel and the steel has a certain composition. And due to that certain composition, there is a certain aluminum or a copper used in the building of the steel, so they want visibility. For declaring for the secondary tariffs, etcetera. Those kind of topics have started to come up. And, actually, team center as a product has a module in itself, which is called integrated material management and the substance compliance. So in that sense, a couple of our colleagues, including myself, we are quite familiar with the those modules of team center. And so we don't have any dedicated person, but this is a hot topic at all of our customers. We have some experience in developing the modules team center for substance compliance and material management. I see. That totally makes sense. So so the the price just repeat the two drivers that you talked about were, like, the the legal compliance driver. And and things that is also related to reporting, whether it's Carver reporting and also others other type of reporting that they need to do about it. Okay. Got it. And and and and currently, like, so so, you know, you have the clients and they have the product. And offering them services around the PLM software and consultation around these products. So so if if if if the yeah, if the client has a has a product, at at Twitch stage of the product development you are personally involved in it? Is it, like, after they have the the design already designed? No. No. Can't sell it. Right from the start. So we are already involved of in the all phases of new product introduction at PIH. So we we also have quite a lot of knowledge in our team with with the CAD systems, both mechanical as well electro electrical and electronics CAT, eCATs. Including, of course, software because we are all coming from the software background more or less. So we have quite some experience with the software part as well. So we get involved with the customer right from the start. When they are even developing a concept or even at the requirement management because Team Center also has a model called for requirements management so that you can also document your requirements as an object and also trace those requirements back to the design solutions, whether it's a software design or a mechanical design. To say that which of these requirements are fulfilled and which are the designs element that are delivering those requirements. That it also helps them in the verification and validation later on. So yeah, we are involved almost every phase of NPI. Understand. And yep. Thanks for explaining about this, because it's also related to the processes. Of how how these things work. So as per requirement, that's also part of the, I think, what you also guys doing right now. So you onboard them also to manage getting those requirement into the PLM and use the PLM for that. So Alright.  
Me: I would I have question on this to understand the details what you've told so far. Does it accompany  
Them: Yes and no. So yes. So so a certain part of your statement is  
Me: a customer of you will not approach you only for, let's  
Them: absolutely correct. All of so for example, take an example of a designer.  
Me: say, implementing these kind of software suits in their IT ecosystem.  
Them: Designer who is designing using a software, a CAD software like NX  
Me: But also for  
Them: NX is quite a big CAT software. So we are not going to go and advise  
Me: giving advice when it comes to the very product design that usually the product  
Them: the designer on how he should, we should  
Me: designer on-site of your client is doing, But as you are an expert in this specific software suite,  
Them: design a certain component because that's his know how.  
Me: you can advise and and train this product designer during the design phase? Is this understood right? Or  
Them: But we advise them how best they can use NX because in NX to to model that design, there might be two or three different possibilities. So based on this requirement, we advise out of the three or four options what would be the best fit for the designer to, you know, use out of all the features that NX provides. Yes. Correct. Correct. Because because most of the time, happens is in a CAD when you have to design a complex assembly, there are often two or three different ways how you can do that. And the designer may not know all the pros and cons of each individual way. So so he needs a certain training. Certain, you know, sounding board where they can have a discussion around.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: And that's what we can advise on. Yeah.  
Me: Okay, and see designer himself.  
Them: Yep. Very good point, Oliver. But clarify. So  
Me: Is not able to make use of all the features of this product  
Them: yeah, so  
Me: because it's so complex and he  
Them: I mean, I think this is, like, was answered partially, but,  
Me: Okay.  
Them: I mean, let's say you know, you you you give, like, a quite brief or concise description about how the process work, but, like, let's say, like, think about product development project you work on. So  
Me: Okay.  
Them: so can just can you walk me through the how how does it work from your first involvement?  
Me: Okay. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you.  
Them: Until, like, the product is launched? Like, where is which area you influence the most in the productive design? Or is there any area that you feel that you influence the product design the most during this process? Okay. So let me see if I can share something on my screen. There might be something available for me, then you can I think it's always good if we can visualize the process? Mhmm. So if I have to really break down the whole thing of of a product design, you know, and while I'm trying to find out the process flow, Yep. It's it now. Then then so there are few key steps in this whole process right, in the design to operate process. You have a like I said, that you have concept development. Let me then share my screen. Let me know when you see my screen. Yes. Okay. Good. So, when you see my screen, what you see over here is that this is the overall process So you have the idea to market. You have plan to fulfill. You know, plan to recite, plan to make to inspect, you know, and then you have the order to fulfillment. But this is, like, a big flow. You can map it towards the the whole NPI. Me and my team is primarily involved in idea to market and the plan to fill. Part of the process. So we play quite a big role in the creating of the concept and the requirements management for the new product we play quite an active role in the product design.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: And after the product design, we also play quite a key role in handover of that product design for the manufacturing. And and that's where we kind of stop. That's that's our last stop, to be honest, at this point in time. So this whole idea to market flow is where we play quite a crucial role. Understand. Yeah. And most of the time, if you look at it all the decisions that are made in the development of the product, for example, what kind of materials they would like to use, what kind of manufacturing technologies they would like to use, as quite a major impact on the carbon footprint. Over the complete life cycle. So, you know, 70 to 80% carbon footprint that apparat is going to have throughout this life cycle, almost six to 70% are of those decisions are made here in this idea to market. Part of the process. And, that's where we play quite a crucial role. Right. And and then the design phase where the engineers are involved comes after, and this is where you the training you mentioned earlier for the Yeah. Yeah. So engineers and the design phase is actually already over here. In the first two steps, concept and the product design. I see. Because that's where the engineers when they want to make a business case, when they want to see something is even feasible from the product perspective. They do the they do the concept development. And if the concept is they see, okay, it's it's working, and the cost that are estimated during the concept time are in line with the the business plan. Then you go into the product design. That's where the detail design starts, where you go all the details. Nitty gritty details of the design, like, you'll have to figure it out or even to the level of all the nuts and bolts. That goes into the machine that is done over here. So most of the engineering work is already done when you before the handover towards manufacturing. I see. And here, I mean, if I if I may ask, so a lot of decisions needs to be made about Right. What kind of materials, as you mentioned, and things that is also has direct impact to climate change or not Mhmm. Or not climate And how do you go about making those decisions and taking them? And how is also the the client is is reacting on on this. So do they say, okay. We really want this, or do you have more influence on certain areas? How do you also take those decisions? Do you do you have any technical implementation for it, or is it a it's an expertise thing? That you have a you reach out to experts or you have in house experts that they decide on them. No. So there are two types of decisions. That I see over here. The decision about process  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: and the tools and technologies, and the decision of the which material to be used Right? So those are two different kind of decisions. We play a quite a crucial role in what kind of tools, technologies, and the processes customer should follow. In order to come to the right decisions and in the end, what kind of a material, for example, they are going to use or what kind of manufacturing technology they are going to use then it is left up to the customer to make that decision. Of course, like I said, that we use certain certain tools ourselves as well for facilitating the decision making. For example, when we talk about the substance compliance, there are now tools available in the market, and Siemens is one of those companies that provide that. So Siemens has a model called substance compliance. Actually, that substance compliance model, for example, of team center, actually, it's an integration with another SaaS solution. It's the SaaS is is coming from a company called ThinkStep. I know if you know that organization or not. Let me also show you this. Big step problem. Mhmm. I think it's a it's a company from Safira now. They they were bought by Safira Group. Okay. So I'll shoot you this one is also a German based company, if I'm if I remember correctly, Thingstop. So okay. This is Thingstop a and z. Okay. But doesn't matter. It's a with a company which basically does the carbon emission. So what they do is they also have in the zero Union, they they basically keep track of all the different rules and regulation that are changing, and they update those rules and regulation every six months when they are go they are getting updated. It has an integration with team center and it's the data models. Once we populate the bill of material correctly, once designer has basically made a choice of certain materials in those bill of materials, what kind of material they are going to use, Of course, we also provide integration with different kind of material databases like Granta, which is one of the biggest in industry. So we pull those materials in into the cat files of the designer where they can apply. Then we we know that exactly which quantity of material is used. We also then provide in the integration towards, like, ThinkStem, and where we can upload the bit of material information. It then runs all its checks and give users or or the designers, basically, the life cycle assessment for the for their decision that they have made. And all this actually happens in the concept design and the detailed design. So before they say that, okay. My design is done, these kind of reports and insights are made available towards the designer so that they can make a right decision in which material they would like to go for. Oh, great. I mean, that's, that's a comprehensive explanation. I mean, you you mentioned you talked about bill of bill of materials and with our conversation with with Thomas last week, he mentioned some kind of hardships in dealing with them because there are many versions of them. Yes. It's a like, there's a version for procurement and, people are living with different version with a bit of material. Would you this as a part of the process or as a pain point that needs to be resolved. No. So I see that as a part of the process because, you know, the products are not stationary products are always evolving. So take an example. Google Pixel, Google Pixel, basically comes up with a new Pixel model every single year. So that's basically you know, that's the evolution of the product. And with every evolution, you have a different bill of material that is coming out And there are, again, in in in in team center world, in in a PLM world, that's exactly the complexity that PLMs are designed to manage. So they have mechanisms in place, We call it an activity mechanisms where we can control which bill of material is effective, at which point in time so that users are always pointing towards the right set of master data. And that is something that we manage it in PLM and ERP via the effective But that's where exactly our expertise also comes into picture because that's that's the value add on top of a Siemens product that, okay, how to set up the whole process. To make sure that there are single sources of truth towards planning, towards manufacturing, towards engineering. They're all looking at the same thing. Got it. Alright. Yep. Correct. You know, the the way I see that companies like ours they thrive in in combining the business know how with the technology know how. You know? In in short.  
Me: K. Sorry to un to interrupt, but  
Them: Correct. They do. They do. So what when we do a project with the customer,  
Me: can it right, your your your major contribution to your clients  
Them: our our key goal is at some point in time to hand over those  
Me: is your  
Them: projects to the internal customer team. So we always work very closely with  
Me: expertise in both the processes and in project management.  
Them: the business side as well as the internal IT of the customer.  
Me: Accompanied with the expertise of this software and the implementation  
Them: Our goal is not to, you know, stay with the customer forever.  
Me: of the software.  
Them: Mean, of course, that's that's that's good for us in general.  
Me: So it's a it's a it's a very  
Them: But at some point in time, we we hand over the project back to the customer's teams, and then  
Me: labor heavy process. Yes. Okay.  
Them: move out.  
Me: So that means a lot of a lot of your knowledge, a lot of your experience  
Them: So, yeah, I have this question now. So  
Me: have you gained by working with these clients, by understanding the  
Them: could you think of, last time that you had to make, like, a really  
Me: software, by training of the software, and  
Them: difficult  
Me: this, let's say, is your kind of, let's say, competitive advantage.  
Them: design decision when working with those customers where was some friction and it was  
Me: When it okay. Mhmm.  
Them: the all the time. Every single day. Every single day. Because, you know, what happens is  
Me: Okay.  
Them: that, okay, in theory, it looks like we talk about one application, but it's actually not one application.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: When you talk about the product lifecycle management,  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: data around the product resides in multiple different enterprise applications.  
Me: Okay. And when it comes to, let's say, the application in the client's  
Them: You know? For example, when you talk about the design information, they are in typically  
Me: sphere, does the client does not have any interest in, let's say,  
Them: in the CAT system and the PLM system. When you talk about the real manufacturing,  
Me: learning more from your experience? Maybe  
Them: information, they are mostly either in MES system or an ERP system.  
Me: setting up their own knowledge base with their  
Them: And when we talk about the maintenance records and the as maintained information about the same  
Me: specific customer experience.  
Them: product they are often reciting in the service management systems. And all these all these different companies, right, they started to so so PLM has a different starting point. It started with the CAD and the design processes. But at some point in time, they started shifting right side of the process, right, from idea to market to plan to fulfill. That's that's their growth. And similarly, ERP started from the plan to fulfill  
Me: K.  
Them: side, but then they started going into idea to market side of the things as well.  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: So then you will see that, you know, a lot of these different enterprise application has quite an overlap. In terms of capabilities. And since there's an overlap of capabilities, people want to have more and more done in their in their own domain, in their circle of influence. Right? So and and this is how the organizations internally and the customer side are also organized. Around these application landscapes. And and sometimes when I say that We will do the bill of material in PLM, then, often because anybody can raise the question, why not in ERP? Because you also have the capabilities to manage the bill of material in ERP. Because certain people in the would prefer to have it in PLM because then their team gets bigger budgets get bigger, and another team may would like to have it in the ERP because their team will get bigger and their budgets will get bigger. Right? So I think the question is more not so much on the technology side. It's about the stakeholder management and, and and the expectation management where we have to often make some tough decisions. Yeah. But that's okay. That's part of the job. You know, As long as we can make it very fact based and we can make it, you know, what do you get when you do it on the one system and what you will get when you do it on the other system. If you make it very fact based, then you can have little bit of our emotions out of those discussions. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Correct. Yes. Right. So so most k. Correct. Yep. Because, like I said, the technologies, know, I in last fifteen, twenty years, technologies has grown so fast and rapidly. I never see technology as a limitation anymore. You know? It's a matter of, putting some brilliant people in to fill the gap of technology. They will always find a solution. The challenge is always coming from the stakeholders and the process  
Me: But that one because Moore has asked about heavy decisions when it comes to  
Them: part, not really from the technology part anymore. So most of the trade offs, it needs to be made they need to be made between those  
Me: product design and elaborated a little bit on what you are doing each day.  
Them: stakeholders usually. Stakeholder and processes. Exactly.  
Me: Would you say  
Them: Because technology has been so advanced in in past few years. I think  
Me: if you are not able  
Them: I think they are so first of all, you know, data has become democratized. You know? You can you can find data almost everywhere  
Me: to come up with organizational changes and with some, let's say, decisions on how to  
Them: Even now, you know, with the with the large  
Me: this process, we would not be able to benefit from the possibilities of  
Them: language models coming in nowadays, if I want to take an example, if I just want to  
Me: both the process improvements and the software.  
Them: look at the carbon footprint of a specific material, if I if I  
Me: So it goes hand in hand You have to train the organization on an organizational level kind of.  
Them: send the query to any of the large language model, it will give me pretty decent answer around that as well.  
Me: You have to implement and to train on the IT level as well.  
Them: Although, you know, I cannot take that as an official authorized example. I always have to go for a company which take the  
Me: Mhmm. Okay.  
Them: take the responsibility and the accountability of that information. So in this  
Me: Coming back to this decision, what Moore has asked.  
Them: you know, the ownership of answers like Granta databases or Thinset, which which always claim that, you know, they are always legally compliant with all the latest coming from EU.  
Me: The heavy part of the decision making in product design is not on implementing and using the IT. But it's on, let's say, the processes that you have to align  
Them: So although their answer might be quite similar to ChatGPT, for example, but I will always go for things  
Me: with all the stakeholders in the process.  
Them: up because ChatGPT will not take the accountability and responsibility, but things that will  
Me: Okay. Okay.  
Them: we pay them the licenses to manage that part. Right? So so in that sense, I never see a issue with the data or or the information or the IT. It's always about governance, always about the stakeholder management and the processes.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Yeah. That's fair enough. So the most frustrating parts, which  
Me: Okay. Okay.  
Them: also I think we we agree on, we I think we we found also with with decided also to go into this venture because we think it's also about processes and stakeholders mostly. And and but do you feel also like this is frustrating part? This is a part that you would like things in it to change apparently? For example. Yes. If it's up to me, yes. You know? I I I certainly feel and especially in the last few years, I think the life was much simpler when I working in this PLM domain because it was only about CAD data management and CAD data management only. But more and more, the regulation has started to kick in or legal requirements started to kick in where you have to integrate with so many different application. You need to integrate with so many different processes. The things have started to become more complex. Over a period of time. And not everybody has the same level of knowledge in all these different areas. So, you know, because if you are a legal expert, then you have an quite a good knowledge about the legal part of those processes. An engineer has a knowledge about the technical part of those processes. Our procurement might have knowledge towards the financial and the, you know, the negotiation with their suppliers, etcetera. And and to and and now more and more, it has become a team work and a team effort. The product development, it's it's not in silos anymore. The silos doesn't work anymore. But often that  
Me: Okay.  
Them: cause cause different types of issues because then, you know, different kind of stakeholders are in there with different knowledge and different motivations. And to manage them is not getting easier any anymore. I can tell you that. If I could do that, of course, I would say yes. Let's do it. But it's not as simple. And, also, I I see it sometime, you know, it's out of my control, to be honest. Right? It's every company that I work for is internally organized differently. Every organization I've worked with has a different kind of a legal requirements applied to them. For example, when I talk about diamond shipyard, where I'm working now, they have if I'm working for their label, all those requirements are coming from the defense perspective. All these legal requirements that you have in the defense that kicks in, and that's kind of take over all other requirements you know, and when you work for companies like, which are making up commodity products, they do not worry that much about the securities and the other defense related requirements because for their they are just selling our commodity products. For them, the generate EU requirements might be more applicable. So every customer has their different challenge, different complexity, to be honest. It I never found two customer which has a similar kind of a regulatory requirement as well. You know? It's it's always different. Okay. Fair enough. Which yeah, brings me to this question that if no customer has of this similar challenges and similar processes they but do you feel there is something repetitive in your workflow that is also oh, secure. DAM. I wish you know, this has a solution for it as well. Something that also Yes. I would say yes. You know, customer believes that they are special, they have different organization structures. They have different roles and responsibility. But at a middle level, you know, they do similar kind of things. You know? They they do their CAD design. They populate all kind of information, and know, from our from our design perspective as well to expedite the things. We also say that, okay. This is a set of common processes that every customer lived through. In in in their product development. So let's take that as a standard template. And start from there rather than starting every time from the clean board. And and ask question why this process does not work for for you. Because if if we have, you know, found out that there are commonality at four or five different customers and they follow, you know, quite a similar process, then why will it not work for the seventh or the eighth customer? So you you know then the responsibility on is on the customer side to convince us why it doesn't work rather than be convincing them why it works. So we always try to find out the best practice and the commonality, and there are always certain commonalities. You know? You can reuse. It's not like that every time we start from the scratch. There are all the certain commonalities. Okay. Fair enough. So just wanna jump quick. I think in the last we have more fifteen minutes just talking about because you have an extensive experience with, like, PRM softwares and so just wanna ask him all those. I mean, what is what is the PRM software you use the most? Mhmm. Also, with other CAD, CAEs, CAM, ERP softwares you're dealing with, and talk a little bit about this if it's okay. Oh, yeah. That's okay. So mostly, would say our strength is Siemens put Siemens week. So we've worked with Siemens team center as a PLM software and Siemens NX. As a CAD and the CAM software. It's quite a yeah. It's it's one of the biggest out there in the market. From ERP perspective, quite a lot of our customers have SAP as their ERP system. So we work, quite a lot with the ERP SAP as an ERP. For a small scale customers in the smaller industries, now we started to see that there are a couple of ERP system which have started to pick up, Microsoft Dynamics is we hear quite often nowadays. With the smaller companies going into the Dynamics. So there also we have now a few customers which are working with my Dynamics. So I think these are the key applications where we work quite often. And I just thought about this. I mean, it's not really part of our guideline, but, yeah, I was thinking, how do you see all this stuff in ten years? Like, the this ecosystem of PLN and can and ERP systems. I know now they're trying to move toward cloud cloud services. Yes. And many designers are reluctant to do it, but Yes. I mean, I think I who is very difficult to say?  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: I think the smaller company is because of the cost factor and the standardization, they are more open towards moving towards the cloud. And and those are typically very small companies. Any company which has a pretty decent size, let's say that if they have more than 100 designers, for example, They have their complexity where these cloud SaaS solutions, especially from the PLM perspective, are not fulfilling their needs. So I know that, for example, Siemens has now also realized that and recognized that. So they do offer for these complex customers as well as SaaS solution. But then it is more I I say that that's more like a lift and shift where, you know, you can have your own private tenant. So it's not a multi tenant. Cloud. It's it's not a real SaaS solution. It's it's just your private instance deployed in in in CMS cloud. You know? And CMS manages that. CMS upgrades that, but you are allowed to do every kind of customization. So it will be, like, really your own specific instance learning on CMS cloud. At any technology wise, yes. Technology wise, commercial wise, you can always call it a SaaS, but it's not in in that sense a real SaaS. So on the PLM side, I think, in my opinion, in ten years, I do not see real multi tenant or or a solution to be deployed in the ten years. You know, people are still worried about their IPs. And their processes because I always say that, you know, this software, like, centered, they are they are selling the same software towards a company that manufactures cigarette to a company that manufacture a spacecraft. It's the same software. What differentiate these companies, although they are using the same software. So take an example of Boeing and Aerobus, and they both use Team Center. If you start using center Team Center, there is a competitive advantage. The competitive advantage is is the processes that they have overlaid on top of these applications. And how efficient their process is defines how com know, where is the competitive advantage of that organization. And if all these organizations just standardize everything, then, you know, you are no better than the other. It's all then same. Yeah. I see. But given the like, recent breakthrough with the large language models and AI, Yep. Given given those last breakthrough of LLM and AI, do do you think also the way that those sources are going to be used and the features are are going to transform radically, would you say? Yes. So they so they there are already companies which are exploring large language models. On on on top of the PLM processes. Even Siemens has it now. Siemens lets you choose whichever AI model you want to or line language model you want to deploy. It supports quite a few now. You can even decide whether you want to deploy it in Azure or you want to deploy it in Amazon Web Services. But to be honest, at this point in time, I I I hear quite a lot about the AI, but then I'm getting very disappointed when I look at the use cases they would like solve. The most common use cases is still to find the information in the most efficient way. Which you can still do it without an AI as well. But, okay, AI has a little bit better response, which people can understand. That's fine. I understand that. I understand. But I think the market might also, you know, over a period of time, move away from this big large language model to more dedicated smaller models. Because the kind of model that you require in engineering space are quite different than those gender models. So that's what I expect in next ten years. There might be industry specific models coming up. And getting deployed. And, you know, and since now you have this MCP servers available, so I see a lot of MCP servers integrations incoming few years from now getting integrated with this legacy PLM systems. Yeah. It's the problem. Seems like it's gonna be the next week in MCV if it works out. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So I I I personally do not see that there will be generic models available which can do all, I think, the industry might go for a smaller, more dedicated models. Future. Yes. And we just getting back, like, also, again, for the topic of sustainability. And in your personal view, like, how is it, like, important comparing to other pressures? Like, that's, like, cost, time, performance, and do you feel that the current tools of provide assessment in issues like repairability or use or cyclability, total energy, like, what what is your just view on that? I mean, yeah, like, there there are dedicated tools which provides, for example, for manufacturability, there is a tool called DFM Pro. I don't know if you know that. You can look into this. DFM Pro basically has this so the the DFM stands for design for manufacturability. So once designer is designing some features in the CAD, you can check with the DFM Pro how good that feature is in terms of the manufacturability. What is the impact of designing such a feature or manufacturing of that feature? So every now and then, you will find that there are tools out there in the market which try to solve these problems. But, you know, those tools are also some of them are quite mature. Like, the FM Pro has been in the industry for quite some time. Then there is another one. I forgot the name. It is can I can send you the name later on? So there are tools in the market. But, again, those tools are then not integrated into the processes, and the market is very fragmented. The tools are, at this point in time, very expensive. Not every company can afford them. So there is a challenge I see also in Europe. Adaptability of these tools. And a lot of the companies still make their own internal simulation algorithms because they have a very specific problems that they can solve internally or in house other than relying on this standard tools because they find sometime more expensive in terms of the license cost, the IT infrastructure, etcetera. So I know a lot of companies just do their own simulation models themselves. Got it. And and the thing is, like, those tools are not integrated into the processes, meaning that they're not integrated into the ERP, PLM systems. So they work as a standalone software that you have to Yep. Move your data wrong. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So then you have to integrate them into the process because, you know, these guys also sell their tools. They don't want to restrict themselves that, okay, we will only sell this tool if you have a PLM or an ERP in place. You know? If somebody can manually type in the information, then why not? You know? Don't care much. So they send you that feature that, okay, we have this feature. We can solve your problem. And then integration is often left at the customer site to integrate them. That's also where we you know, companies like us comes into picture. To integrate all these different applications together. Yeah. Make total sense. I mean, so yeah, we're we're trying to interview some of the people, the the actual users of the PLM and CAT software. And Again, also, like, much more insight and was wondering if if if there's anybody in your organization or someone that you know that we can also talk to them about the users of those software, especially when it comes also to matters that has to do with integration and things like this, but more on a level of, like, a daily tag user and PLN user. Yeah. I can I can check I can check-in my net if somebody is interested in having a discussion with you? I can check a four appointment. And Mhmm. Yep. I would say it's again, it's very fragmented. Like I said, I think that data acquisition and getting to the right data is quite challenging even at the start of the project. You know, we talk about the requirement management. We talk about the, different databases. Like I said, you know, the databases like Ganta, data like DFM Pro. You know, you you you have all these different kind of databases. But in most of the organizations, you will see all that these are never integrated. Even even today even today, the requirement system is completely decoupled from your design system. Because most of the companies are still writing their requirements in design docu in in in Word docu. Yeah. And then it resides in PDFs, in words. And and that is where, you know, see now suddenly this AI started to become very appealing because nobody I can tell you the designers from the They go through the design document, and then they start designing. To read a 300 page document of all the requirements I doubt how many designers are really, you know, going through it and doing it. With the AI, they can at least get the summary. They can get these kind of things, and that's why they're asking for, you know, these kind of large language models which can which can shift to all this information. Then the question is how good those models are, you know, how you ensure that the information that they are reading is actually from those dedicated, you know, document that has been provided as an input. And not hallucinating anymore. Then those kind of questions become a little bit more relevant. But data acquisition is indeed is always a challenge in my opinion.  
Me: I have an additional question, and maybe it's a kind of foundational to what we've discussed so far.  
Them: Yes.  
Me: I think you one of your challenges when you're doing customer projects is  
Them: Yep.  
Me: getting along with the with the quality of data.  
Them: Yep.  
Me: That the customer uses. Not only the data within the organization, but also data from external sources.  
Them: Yep.  
Me: And when we, let's say, look into the sphere of sustainability, and  
Them: Correct.  
Me: assuming that the product designer has to have very good data at the very beginning of the process to come up, let's say, with the right  
Them: A big problem. It's a big problem because, you know, the designers are only responsible for the components which they design.  
Me: assumptions, to come with the right decisions,  
Them: At the end of the day. Right? Because that's what when they talk about the, enrichment of  
Me: how would you assess the problem of data quality and of alignment of x  
Them: data, they only their role and responsibility is  
Me: databases and internal databases when it comes to this very  
Them: design, not anything else. But if you look at any OEM,  
Me: sustainable product design question.  
Them: and if I explore the form of any OEM, almost 70% of the components are not designed by OEM. They are coming from their suppliers. And supplier might use completely different set of PLM, different kind of a databases, different kind of assumptions. And often, the IP offsets design reside with their supplier. So, you know, the the the OEM does not own those IPs. So for them, it's just a black box. And often, will see even the companies are reporting company cannot report it on their complete bond today because a lot of that information does not  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: is is is not even in their databases today. So that's that's quite of a big challenge because you then you report something, but you actually report something only based on the 70 or 80% of the information that you  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: have. Less 30, 40% is not even known to anybody in the supply chain. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. So so I see that some companies have started to work on that part as well. And they started to develop a kind of a, you know, the network of suppliers. I think there is also a initiative from from EU. It's called data spaces. I don't know if you see these data spaces things from EU. They're also basically trying to highlight that part of the problem where they want to make a  
Me: We have learned from the the interview with your colleague.  
Them: network of information from throughout the supply chain at  
Me: That it might  
Them: least for the European Union.  
Me: be a problem to align the different databases when it  
Them: Part. Would be interesting as well because that's an EU initiative.  
Me: comes to the bonds. And when it comes to the impact of carbon intake  
Them: I've I've put you on the links in the in the chat just  
Me: in the materials and in the supply chain, especially  
Them: later. Yep.  
Me: when you start working, let's say, kind of assumptions,  
Them: So it's it's like a self declaration portal. Then there's a that that since we talked  
Me: right of your company, And in the very end of the design process, then you'll try to bring in external data  
Them: about it, I think that's another thing as well that's getting quite big, to be honest. In the market, which is called BomChek.  
Me: then you learn that maybe some of your assumptions are not aligned with  
Them: It's again coming from Safira. The Safira is, quite active now. They bought  
Me: in this databases. So is this a really a big  
Them: this Thingstop, and Safira also owns this application called POM check.  
Me: problem, or is this, let's say, something that  
Them: That's also a really nice tool which we have used at couple of customers where what it this tool allows every supplier to declare their bonds.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: And if I am using a component from a supplier,  
Me: Yep.  
Them: then I know supplier. I know their component number when I use it in the form, I can also export the form from this form check, or I can check my form against this form check. Without knowing what is inside there. So this is like in IP protected black box  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: I just need to know the the ID of the material from the supplier. I just send it. And if the supplier is also on the bond check, he has already done his declaration. Will just get the result of the declaration that everything is good. I don't have to have the visibility into their data. So it's it's like a network of different suppliers doing their declarations on their board. So there's both it's actually quite a nice tool as well. It's getting quite some popularity in the market now.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: If It's Correct.  
Me: But is it is it  
Them: So do you do you have more questions, Olaf? Or  
Me: is it a possibility that the companies have to prove that they can, let's say, a kind of guarantee  
Them: Yeah. No problem at all. And you will see that in the bomb check  
Me: the intake of carbon in their products  
Them: you will see the the like I said, that this is a company. Safira is now one of those companies.  
Me: And therefore, they have to, dive really deep into the data of their  
Them: Which is bringing it together. It's consolidating the market.  
Me: suppliers in terms  
Them: They have this the Things tab which does the compliance. They have the form information where you can declare your forms  
Me: okay.  
Them: and then it gives you these, substance compliance based on the reach, ROHS,  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Prop 65, PFAs, etcetera. You know, it can it can give you quite a lot of information on that.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: So thanks a lot, Veranda. It was that was really, really helpful to us, honestly. Yep. Got it. Yes. And yeah, I hope we can stay in touch later in just in case we need some help regard. Feel free to reach out whenever you need something to reach out. We're we're now we're we we wanna focus on interviewing more post software users Yeah. And see what's  
Me: Okay. Okay.  
Them: like, their day to day life. And Yeah. And you give us, like, a really  
Me: Okay.  
Them: really great insight and also Thomas as well.  
Me: Perfect.  
Them: Yeah. It was a pleasure. Similar. I will check internally on my side in my if somebody is, you know, open to speak with you, like a real cat designer or a ELM user, then I will let you know. Yeah. Thank you so much. Have a nice day. Bye.  
Me: Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Because in the bond, there is all relevant data that you need for your reports for your compliance and okay. No. This was one one question. I'm really interested in to learn and to understand a little bit better So thank you very much for the explanation, Marvin. Alright. Alright. Yeah. No. Thank you very much. Have a nice day. 